content/projects/grid-maker/grid-maker.md, before:

---
title: Grid Maker
tags: 
- name: JS
- name: HTML5
excerpt: This project was built as a teaching tool for learning about fractal geometry, although it can be used for other purposes. It was built for my partner (who is a math teacher) to use with her students.
demo: https://grid-maker-1a221.firebaseapp.com
repo: https://github.com/atinybeardedman/grid-maker
tile: ./tile.jpg
icon: fas,th
order: 3
---
# Description
This project provides a simple grid interface that students can customize to learn about fractal geometry. The grid serves as a way to easily demonstrate self similarity of fractal patterns. Students are able to save their work as a pdf that then can be easily shared, printed, or otherwise displayed for the rest of the class. Students can control the number of grid cells and then paint each cell with customized colors.

## Tech Stack
- Vanilla Javascript (No Framework)
- HTML Canvas
- Bulma (CSS Library)
- Local Storage (For persisting the current grid)
- Firebase Hosting

Commit message:

feat: added content to string art page

content/projects/grid-maker/grid-maker.md, after:

---
title: Fractal Grid Maker
tags: 
- name: JS
- name: HTML5
excerpt: Fractal geometry is a relatively new field of mathematics that is not traditionally taught in high school classrooms. I built this tool in collaboration with my partner for her to use to teach students the fundamentals of fractals.
demo: https://grid-maker-1a221.firebaseapp.com
repo: https://github.com/atinybeardedman/grid-maker
tile: ./tile.jpg
icon: fas,th
order: 3
---
## Motivation
Fractal geometry is a relatively new field of mathematics that is not traditionally taught in high school classrooms. Due to this fact, there aren't many tools out there for teachers to use who want to explore this topic with younger students. My partner is a high school teacher who is luckily enough to teach a course that includes fractals and was looking for an easy way for students to be able to manually the concepts of iteration, self similarity, and fractal dimension. Together we worked to design this application that would serve as an important learning tool for her students.

![Fig. 1 - An example fractal design used by my partner](./screenshot-2.jpg) 

## Development
My partner used to create tables in a word processor and color in the indivdual cells to create her fractal designs for students, but found the process very tedious and limiting. It was important for her that we made a system that allowed the grid to be made with any number of cells, while still making it easy to share and print the finalized designs for her classroom. We wanted students to be able see their designs with and without the grid lines, and how freedom with choosing color options.

![Fig. 2 - A more complex fractal design](./tile.jpg)

## Tech Stack
The application uses the HTML5 canvas to provide an accessible drawing interface for students with a native color picker for their shading choices. The entire application is written in vanilla javascript with no framework, and uses the Bulma CSS library for responsive styling. The grid state saves itself to local browser storage after every shading operation and loads itself automatically when returning to the page to ensure no one loses work. I chose one of the many available PDF libraries to allow users to download their grid to fill a standard 8.5x11 sheet of paper for printing. Due to the fact that it's all front end technology I was able to host it on Firebase hosting.
