content/projects/string-art-simulator/string-art.md, before:

---
title: String Art Simulator
tags:
- name: VueJS
- name: TS
- name: HTML5
excerpt: This project provides a simulation for creating string art using modular arithmatic. It was built for my partner (who is a math teacher) to use with her students. 
demo: https://string-art-simulator.firebaseapp.com/
repo: https://github.com/atinybeardedman/string-art-simulator
tile: ./screenshot-1.png
icon: fab,connectdevelop
order: 2
---
# Description

This project provides a simulation for creating string art using modular arithmatic. It was built for my partner (who is a math teacher) to use with her students. The simulation allows students to play with the various variables in choosing how to generate their figure such as:
- The number of cusps in the cardiod
- The number of nodes to use
- The color(s) of the strings used
- The shape of the canvas
- The point to start at

## Tech Stack
- VueJS (Typescript)
- HTML Canvas
- Buefy (Responsive Design Components)
- HTML Canvas for Rendering
- Firebase Hosting

Commit message:

feat: added content to string art page

content/projects/string-art-simulator/string-art.md, after:

---
title: String Art Simulator
tags:
- name: VueJS
- name: TS
- name: HTML5
excerpt: Combining art and mathematics together is a growing trend in education. This simulation provides students a glimpse at the art they can create using a mathematical tool called modular division.
demo: https://string-art-simulator.firebaseapp.com/
repo: https://github.com/atinybeardedman/string-art-simulator
tile: ./tile.png
icon: fab,connectdevelop
order: 2
---
## Motivation
Combining art with math and science is a growing trend in education sometimes referred to as STEAM. This simulation grew out of a unit in which my partner teaches her students about modular division and its various applications. 

Modular division is a special form division where the result of the operation is the remainder. This form of division has applications from barcodes, credit card validation algorithms, and even art. 

Her students learned how to create these special cardiods by using an algorithm that incorperates modular division. You start by punching holes into a paper in a circle (or other shape if you like) and spacing them evenly apart and assigning each hole a number. Then based on a formula (with modular division) you plug in each hole's number and it tells you which hole to connect with your string. By connecting these holes you can create beautiful curved shapes by only using straight lines. This process seems almost magical and it can be hard for students to be able to envision their final product. I built this tool to help them design their art before they started sewing them in real life.

![Fig. 2 - An example string design](./tile.png)

## Development
I wanted to be able to let students choose between a circle and an oval for their shape as well as control different aspects of the formula such as the number of holes used or the color(s) of the string. I had to brush up on polar coordinate systems and the trig formulas for these shapes to easily distribute the nodes on both the circle and oval easily.

![Fig. 3 - An example string design using 2 different colored strings](./string-2.png)

## Tech Stack
I rendered the string art itself on the HTML5 canvas, using Vue.js as my framework to create the reactive UI. I used Bulma's CSS bindings for Vue to style the components and make them responsive and accessible. Due to the number of parameters being passed around and changed, I chose to use Typescript to write my code in class style components for added type safety. The app is front end only hosted on Firebase hosting.
